README.md, before:

# bio-ext
Biomarker and deep phenotype extraction platform, as an extension to CogStack, or other unstructured data stores in hospital EHR systems.

## Project Structure

`bio-ext` is set-up as a monorepo.

- `/deployment` deploying MLOps environment in production
- `/deployment_local` deploying MLOps and ElasticSearch in local dev environment
- `/src` bioext package that is imported into projects, containing utils for interacting with environment
- `/projects` individual projects that contain labelling/model development scripts, not part of bioext package

```
|deployment/
|--docker-compose.yml
|--.env
|
|deployment_local/
|--docker-compose.yml
|--.env
|
|src/
|--bioext/
|----__init__.py
|----doccano_utils.py
|----elastic_utils.py
|
|projects/
|--test_ml_runs/
|----requirements.txt
|----.env
|--project_a/
|----requirements.txt
|----.env
|--project_b/
|----requirements.txt
|----.env
|
|pyproject.toml
|README.md
```

## Getting Started

### Set up Python environment

Requirements should be configured per project, using preferred virtual environment manager. e.g.:
```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
As well as other packages, this must contain `-e ../../` to install bioext as an editable package.

### First time set-up (admin)

(1) In `/deployment/`, create a copy of `.env.example` as `.env` and configure variables prior to docker-compose.

(2) Pull in the mlflow-boto-docker Dockerfile by running `git submodule update --init`.

(3) From `/deployment/`, run:
```
docker-compose up -d
```

(4) Check that services are running on:
```
Doccano: http://localhost:8000
MLFlow: http://localhost:5000
Minio: http://localhost:9001
```

### Environment variables for projects

Necessary environmental variables should be separately configured as .env files for each project in `/projects/`, and loaded using load_dotenv()

### Test ML run

(1) For logistic regression on synthetic weight and height data, from `/projects/test_ml_runs/`, run:
```
python logreg_whg_test.py
```

(2) For wine quality elasticnet test, from `/projects/test_ml_runs/`, run:
```
python wine_test.py
```

(3) Log onto MLFlow frontend to confirm experiment logging, and check that model artifacts are stored and registered in S3. Model artifacts can also be directly viewed by logging into Minio.

Commit message:

chore: Update requirements to include machine learning libraries for editable package installation
Setup bio-ext to have optional extras (e.g. ml extra)

README.md, after:

# bio-ext
Biomarker and deep phenotype extraction platform, as an extension to CogStack, or other unstructured data stores in hospital EHR systems.

## Project Structure

`bio-ext` is set-up as a monorepo.

- `/deployment` deploying MLOps environment in production
- `/deployment_local` deploying MLOps and ElasticSearch in local dev environment
- `/src` bioext package that is imported into projects, containing utils for interacting with environment
- `/projects` individual projects that contain labelling/model development scripts, not part of bioext package

```
|deployment/
|--docker-compose.yml
|--.env
|
|deployment_local/
|--docker-compose.yml
|--.env
|
|src/
|--bioext/
|----__init__.py
|----doccano_utils.py
|----elastic_utils.py
|
|projects/
|--test_ml_runs/
|----requirements.txt
|----.env
|--project_a/
|----requirements.txt
|----.env
|--project_b/
|----requirements.txt
|----.env
|
|pyproject.toml
|README.md
```

## Getting Started

### Set up Python environment

Requirements should be configured per project, using preferred virtual environment manager. e.g.:
```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
As well as other packages, this must contain `-e ../../.[ml]` to install bioext as an editable package, with all the extra required machine learning libraries.

### First time set-up (admin)

(1) In `/deployment/`, create a copy of `.env.example` as `.env` and configure variables prior to docker-compose.

(2) Pull in the mlflow-boto-docker Dockerfile by running `git submodule update --init`.

(3) From `/deployment/`, run:
```
docker-compose up -d
```

(4) Check that services are running on:
```
Doccano: http://localhost:8000
MLFlow: http://localhost:5000
Minio: http://localhost:9001
```

### Environment variables for projects

Necessary environmental variables should be separately configured as .env files for each project in `/projects/`, and loaded using load_dotenv()

### Test ML run

(1) For logistic regression on synthetic weight and height data, from `/projects/test_ml_runs/`, run:
```
python logreg_whg_test.py
```

(2) For wine quality elasticnet test, from `/projects/test_ml_runs/`, run:
```
python wine_test.py
```

(3) Log onto MLFlow frontend to confirm experiment logging, and check that model artifacts are stored and registered in S3. Model artifacts can also be directly viewed by logging into Minio.
